mourners in Beirut have held a funeral
for Hamas Deputy leader who was killed
in an explosion on Tuesday s aruri was
considered a key figure in the group
that carried out the deadliest terror
attack in Israel's history on October
7th he was its Deputy political leader
and a co-founder of its military wing
aruri and two other haras members were
laid to rest in the Lebanese
Capital lebanon's militant Hezbollah
group blames Israel for the
assassination although there has been no
claim of responsibility but Israeli
officials have previously said they
would Target Hamas leaders wherever they
are waving the Hamas flag protesters in
ramala voed their support and anger the
city in the occupied West Bank was the
hometown of Salah aruri the high ranking
Hamas official was killed in a strike on
Beirut on
Tuesday
this is crazy hysterical
Revenge Revenge because Israel feels and
is experiencing a kind of
defeat and therefore it knows full well
that there's no victory for
it Salah aruri was Deputy to hamas's
leader is hania and the groups ke liazon
with Hezbollah in
Lebanon since aror assassination in the
suburbs of Beirut Israel and Hezbollah
have continued to fire at each other
across the border an almost daily
occurrence since Israel's war with Hamas
began the Lebanese political party and
militant group is backed by Iran and
considered a terrorist organization by
the US Germany and some Sunni Arab
countries Israel has not officially
claimed responsibility for the strike on
Beirut but Lebanese security sources
said it was caused by an Israeli drone
Hezbollah has vowed to retaliate calling
it a serious assault on
[Music]
Lebanon if the enemy thinks of waging a
war on
Lebanon we will fight without
restraint without rules Without Limits
and without
restrictions Israel knows what I mean
the podum is yours Israel's main Ally
the US has said it was not informed
before the blast in Beirut Washington is
now urging restraint to keep the war
contained just wanted to before we don't
want to see it widen Beyond Israel and
Hamas and again we're going to keep
working with Partners in the region to
prevent that from
happening Hezbollah has so far refrained
from escalating Beyond border skirmishes
with
Israel but this attack in the heart of
Lebanon has raised fears of an allout
War and the Israeli Army says it's on
high alert and ready for any
scenario well let's dig a little bit
deeper with shanie rosanes uh with me in
the studio here our Middle East analyst
shannie this strike was against the
deputy Hamas leader but it was in a
Hezbollah dominated uh neighborhood in
in Lebanon uh that so far there has been
no major retaliation from from Hezbollah
what do you make of that well just to
show you that the complexity of uh the
the the Dynamics when we talk about
alliances you know we talk about hamas's
alliance with Lebanon uh with hasbalah
forces that is um with Iran but then
this Iran hisbah Shia
proxy it's not a direct line when it
comes to Hamas it as a Sunni off offsho
they are committed to the fight for the
Palestinian cause but they're not uh
they're well aware of the fact that
bringing Lebanon into the fight which is
what Israel says is Israel does not
differentiate from hisbah from Lebanon
in that aspect when it's attacked from
Lebanon the way it's going to it's
threatening it's going to attack again
against barut so for for Nala for his
balah to be attacking uh Israel
fierceful uh for Kamas cause this is a
test that they're put into are they how
far are they going to go with this
Alliance and we're seeing so far that
the bet that Israel has taken probably
Israel has taken in going for a ruri
assuming that his balah will be uh sort
of moderate or or can contain his its
response both sides can contain their
response without escalation so far it
seems to be um seem to be a safe bet we
need to keep in mind this is just so far
I'm sure hasbalah will will find more
ways to uh show its respon it but just
to show you you know putting pressure
into this Alliance that we know already
was kind of tens under under pressure
because there was no coordination about
and and pre- knowledge of hisb about the
attack by Hamas we know that by now very
interesting the power dynamics in in in
all this now this week Israel has
withdrawn some of its troops uh from
Gaza is that part of a larger shift in
strategy could we see uh increasingly
see Hamas leaders being targeted outside
of Gaza and less sort of conventional
Warfare in Gaza well they Israeli Prime
Minister said it himself the head of the
Mad repeated that again they see all of
Hamas heads anybody involved with the
October 7 attack as as person that is
deemed to be uh you know on their target
list it's nothing new in that aspect but
it is true that it's much more of a
tangible achievement for Israel to get
than anything that we're seeing now in
Gaza in the last 90 days exactly today
we've seen Israel uh trying striving for
Meaningful strategic achievements in
Gaza and and it's not capable to break
actually hamas's control over the
territory not yet so aiming at the heads
of Kamas in a way makes it a bit easier
to break this somewhat vague uh goal of
of uh eradicating hamas's uh rule or or
you know getting rid of Hamas and Gaza
putting the the goal exactly at the
heads of Hamas and chasing them wherever
they are that's a bit easier to sell and
maybe to achieve uh now you said it 90
days uh ago today uh and tonight the
Israeli cabinet will be talking about
how they will want to deal with the Gaza
Strip after the war and two ministers uh
of the government have called for
Palestinians to leave Gaza and that
raised fears of a forced expulsion
is that the road the government is
expected to go for really well first of
all it's it's it's quite striking it
took the Israel government 90 days um
because how do you start a a an
operation without knowing your end goal
you know part of the pressure for this
discussion is coming from the military
saying we need to know where we're
heading um so finally it's happening the
talks about expulsion you know of
Palestinian that's always uh some sort
of a wet dream of the white of the
extreme right in Israel and now they're
being more you know unabashedly loud
with this with this aspiration of course
the American uh supporters of Israel are
against it of course the International
Community is against it it's also partly
the core of the problem between Israel
and the Palestinians what happens to the
refugees what happened to all those
Palestinians that are still refugees for
so many years partially because the
world does not want to help Israel solve
the Palestinian problem in a way by
getting rid of the refugees sort of
saying refugees all of Palestinians they
need to be finding their solution Within
part of the greater ution for the
Israeli Palestinian conflict so that
these talks are probably not realistic
netan said he does not support that what
does he support that's the big problem
um Israel has said mostly what it does
not want to see in Gaza and it's finding
it very difficult to agree on what it is
wanting to see in Gaza the day after
they don't want to see the Palestinian
Authority they even not the new revised
reformed one that the Americans are
trying to conort they don't want to see
Israeli settlements being rebuilt there
they don't want to keep the military
there for true to Long what do they want
they're very limited in their options
there are some talk about maybe local
Clans local families that will try to
take
over many experts say it's not a very
realistic chance of of of of fulfilling
the goals for Israel to bring safety
into that part of uh of of of the world
um yet to be seen Gaza is not a problem
going away so soon that uh seems to be
for sure I'm at least analyst channie
ranis there thank you very
much